# WRRderivedPSRModel
This is a new probabilistic model for surface rupture (PSR) derived from width-rupture ratio (WRR) in place of commonly applied magnitude for the logistic regression. The WRR is defined as the rupture width ($W_{Rup}$) divided by the fault width ($W_{Flt}$).
The physical effects in five stages of residual analysis: the down-dip width-limit effect, depth scaling of the fault rupture, source zone stiffness, extended rupture propagation when transformed along strike, and NML-only terms for the SoF are incorporated. The depth scaling suggests that, within the same WRR context, a shallower fault rupture theoretically has a higher probability of reaching the surface. Additionally, the material stiffness of the source zone relates to the stress, friction, and temperature conditions indicated by the Vs structures. We found that the $Vs_{TUC}$, is proportional to the occurrence of surface rupture in this study, indicating that a stiffer source zone consumes less fracture energy, resulting in a higher PSR. Moreover, we discovered that the rupture propagation phenomenon begins with a circular rupture when the magnitude is small and transforms along the strike as the magnitude increases, constrained by the width-limit effect, leading to a larger Asp, which is associated with significantly higher PSR scaling. Finally, regarding the commonly discussed SoF, we found fewer differences between SS and RV faulting, with only NML faulting showing a higher PSR, possibly owing to extensional forces in the source mechanism. Therefore, we included the NML-only term in our new PSR model.
The new WRR-derived PSR model by Bob J.Y. Huang and Norman A. Abrahamson (2025, submitted).
